I'm a little nervous because my wife
Yvonne said to me she said Jeffrey you
watched the TED talks I said yes honey I
loved TED talks she say you know they're
like really smart talented guys I know I
know she said they don't want like the
angry black man so I said no one would
be good honey I'm gonna be good I am but
I am angry and the last time I looked
why I'm excited but I'm angry this year
they're going to be millions of our
children that we're going to needlessly
lose that they that we could right now
we could save them all you saw the
quality of the educators who were here
do not tell me they could not reach
those kids and save them I know they
could it is absolutely possible
why haven't we fix this those of us in
education have held on to a business
plan that we don't care how many
millions of young people fail we're
gonna continue to do the same thing that
didn't work and nobody nobody is getting
crazy about it right enough to say
enough is enough so here's a business
plan that simply does not make any sense
you know I grew up in the inner city and
there were kids who were failing in
schools 56 years ago when I first went
to school and those schools are still
lousy today 56 years later and you know
something about a lousy school it's not
like a bottle of wine right where you
say like 87 was like a good year right
that's not how this thing I mean every
single year it's still the same approach
right one size fits all
if you get it behind and if you don't
tough luck just tough luck why haven't
we allow innovation to happen
do not tell me we can't do better than
this look you go into a place that's
failed kids for 50 years and you say so
what's the plan and they say what we're
gonna do what we did last year this year
what kind of business model is that
banks used to open and operate between
10:00 and 3:00
they operate 10:00 to 3:00 they they
will close for lunch hour
now who can bank between 10:00 and 3:00
the unemployed they don't need banks
they got no money in the bank who
created that business model right and it
went on for decades you know why because
they didn't care it's wasn't about the
customers it's not about it it was about
bankers they created something that
works for them how could you go to the
bank when you were at work it didn't
matter then they don't care whether or
not just as upset he can't go to the
bank go find another bank they all
operate the same way right now one day
some crazy bank I had an idea maybe we
should keep the bank open when people
come home from work they might like that
what about a Saturday
what about introducing technology now
look I'm a technology fan but I have to
admit to you all I'm a little I'm a
little old so I was a little slow and I
did not trust technology and when they
first came out with those new
contraptions these tellers that you put
in a card and they give you money I was
like there's no way that machine is
gonna count that money right I am never
using that right so so technology has
changed things have changed yet not in
education why why is it that when we had
rotary phones when we were having folks
being crippled by polio that we would
teach him the same way then that we're
doing right now
if you come up with a plan to change
things people consider you radical they
will say the worst things about you I
said one day we'll look if the science
says this is science not me that our
poorest children lose ground in the
summertime right you see where there are
in June ok there dear you look at him in
September they've going down say whoa
so I heard about that and 75 when I was
at the edge school at Harvard it was as
always an important study because it
suggests we should do something every 10
years they reproduced the same study
says exactly the same thing
poor kids lose ground in the summer time
the system decides
you can't run schools in summer who
makes up those rules for years I went to
look I went to the Harvard ed school I
thought I knew something they said was
the agrarian calendar and the people
here but let me tell you why that
doesn't make sense and never I never got
that I never got that because anyone who
knows if you farm you don't plant crops
in July in August you plant them in the
spring so who came up with this idea who
owns it why did we ever do it well it
just turns out in 1840s we did have
schools were open all year and what
would whole year because there are a lot
of folks who had to work all day to have
any place for their kids to go with a
perfect place to have schools so this is
not something that is ordained from the
education God's so why don't we well
because our business has refused to use
science science you have Bill Gates
coming out and say look this works right
we can do this how many places in
America are going to change none none
okay - all right yes there'll be some
place there because some folks are due
to do the right thing as a profession we
have to stop this the science is clear
here's what we know we know
the problem begins immediately right
this this idea zero to three
my wife Yvonne and I we have four kids
three grown ones and a fifteen year old
it's a longer story with our first kids
we did not know the science about brain
development we didn't know how critical
those first three years were we didn't
know what was happening in those young
brains we didn't know the role that
language a stimulus and response calling
response how important that was in
developing those chip we know that now
what are we doing about it
nothing wealthy people no educated
people no and their kids have an
advantage poor people don't know and
we're not doing anything to help them at
all but we notice is critical now you
take pre-kindergarten we know it's
important for kids poor kids need that
experience nope
lots of places doesn't exist we know
health services matter people you know
we provide health services and people
are always fussing at me about you know
because I'm all into you know
accountability and data and all of that
good stuff but will you do health
services I have to raise a lot of money
people used to say when it's come
funders Jeff why do you why do you
provide these health services I said
make stuff up right I'd say well you
know a child who has cavities is not
going to be able to study as well and I
had to because I had to raise the money
right but now I'm older and you know
when I tell them you know I provide kids
with those health benefits and the
sports and the recreation arts because
actually like kids right actually my
kids
right I want to really get pushy people
really get pushy I say I do it because
you do it for your kid and you've never
read a study from MIT that says giving
your kid dance instruction right is
gonna help them do algebra better but
you will give that kid dance instruction
and you will be thrilled that that kid
wants to do dance instruction and it'll
make your day and why shouldn't poor
kids have the same opportunity it's the
it's the floor for these children so so
here's the other thing I'm a tester guy
I believe you need data you need
information cuz we work at something you
think it's working and you find that
it's not working right
I mean educators you work you say if you
think you got it you great no and you
find out they didn't get it but here's
the problem with testing the testing
that we do we're gonna have our test in
New York next week right it's in April
you know we're gonna get the results
back maybe July maybe June and and so in
the end the results have great data
they'll tell you Rahim really struggled
couldn't do two digit multiplication and
it's a great data but you're getting it
back after school is over and so what do
you do you go on vacation you come back
from vacation now you got all of this
test data from last year you don't look
at it why would you look at it you're
gonna go and teach this year so how much
money did we just spend on all of that
billions and billions of dollars for
data that it's too late to use it
I need that data in September I need
that data in November I need to know
you're struggling and I need to know
whether or not what I did corrected that
I need to know that this week I don't
need to know that at the end of the year
when it's too late because in my all the
years I become somewhat of a clairvoyant
I can I can predict school scores you
take me to any school
I'm really good at inner-city schools
that is struggling and you tell me last
year 48% of those kids were on grade
level and I said okay what's the plan
what do we do from last year this year
you say we're doing the same thing i'ma
make a prediction this year somewhere
between 44 and 52% of those kids will be
on grade level and I will be right every
single time right so we're spending all
of this money but we're getting what
teachers need real information right now
about what's happening to their kids the
high stakes is today because you can do
something about it
so here's the other issue that I just
think we've got to be concerned about
we can't stifle innovation in our
business we have to innovate and people
in our business getting mad about
innovation they get angry if you do
something different if you try something
new people always value all in charter
school let's try some stuff let's see
this stuff haven't worked for fifty five
years let's try something different and
here's the rub some of its not gonna
work you know people tell me air those
charter schools a lot of them don't work
a lot of them don't they should be
closed I mean I believe they should be
closed but we can't confuse figuring out
the science and things not working with
we shouldn't therefore do anything right
because that's not the way the world
works you think about technology
imagine if that's how we thought about
technology every time something didn't
work we just do in the towers and let's
forget it
right no they convinced me I'm sure some
of you would like me the latest and
greatest thing the Palm Pilot they told
me Jeff if you get this Palm Pilot
you'll never need another thing that
thing lasted all of three weeks it was
over I was so disgusted I spent my money
on this thing
did anybody stop inventing not a person
not a soul
the folks went out there they kept envy
the fact that you have failure that
shouldn't stop you from from pushing the
science forward
our job is educated there's some stuff
we know that we can do and we've got to
do better the evaluation we have to
start with kids are we have to make sure
that we provide the supports of young
people we've got to give them all of
these opportunities so that we have to
do but this innovation issue this idea
that we've got to keep innovating until
we really nail this science now is
something that it's absolutely critical
and this is something by the way that I
think is going to be a challenge for our
entire field America cannot wait another
50 years to get this right we have run
out of time I don't know about a fiscal
cliff but I know there's an educational
cliff that we are walking over right
this very second and if we allow folks
to continue this foolishness about
saying we can't afford this so Bill
Gates says it's gonna cost five billion
dollars what is five billion dollars to
the United States what did we spend in
Afghanistan this year how much how many
trillions when when the country cares
about something we'll spend a trillion
dollars without blinking an eye when the
safety of America is threatened we will
spend any amount of money the real
safety of our nation is preparing its
next generation so that they can take
our place and be the leaders of the
world when it comes to thinking and
technology and democracy and all that
stuff we care about I dare say it's a
pittance
it's a pittance what it would require
for us to really begin to solve some of
these problems so once we do that I'll
no longer be angry so you guys
right help ridiculous thank you all very
much
so what is the high school dropout rate
at Harlem Children's Zone well you know
John a hundred percent of our kids
graduate high school last year in my
school 100% of them went to college this
year seniors will have 100% graduating
high school last I heard we had 93%
accepted to college
we better get that other 7% so how do
you stick with them after they leave
high school you know that one of the bad
problems we have in this country these
kids the same kids the same vulnerable
kids when you get them to school they
drop out in record numbers and so we've
figured out that you've got to really
design a network of supports for these
kids that in many ways mimics what a
good parent does they harass you right
they call you they say I want to see
your grades how you doing that last test
what are you talking about that just you
know you want to leave school you're not
coming back here so bunch of my kids
know you can't come back to Harlem cuz
Jeff is looking for you right in like I
really can't come back no you better
stay in school but but you know I'm not
kidding about some of this and it gets a
little bit too the great issue when kids
know that you refuse to let them fail
right it puts a different pressure on
them and they don't give up as easy
so I'm sometimes they don't have it
inside and they're like you know I don't
want to do this but I know my mother's
gonna be mad or they will that matters
the kids and it helps get them through
we try to create a set of strategies
that gets them tutoring and help and
support but also a set of encouragement
that say to them you can do it it is
going to be hard but we refuse to let
you fail well thank you dr. Canada
please give it up on one more time
you
[Applause]